Assignment 1 - Tasks

1) All the available processors
2) What is the use of RAM 
3) Computer configuration - be able to explain each part
4) What are various types of HardDisks and storage media
5) What are 32 bit and 64 bit architectures

1) Processors process the required instruction to run the application or to do some task.
   The main processors brands are as follows:
   
   -For windows/Linux PCs:
   >Intel
   i3,i5,i7,i9
   i3 is used for basic tasks like browsing,word, etc while the highest i9 is used for gaming,AI,professional editing ,etc.
   i5 is mid range and i7 is high performance used for coding and editing,etc.

   >AMD
   AMD has its own processors very similar to intel processors namely:
   Ryzen 3,Ryzen 5,Ryzen 7,Ryzen 9
   Their performance is very similar to that of intel processors but these are much affordable.

   -For apple devices:
   >Apple silicon processors
   M1,M2,M3
   Apple used to use intel processors until 2020 but later on shifted to producing its own processors
   They are different from other processes as these chips combine RAM,GPU and CPU into one single chip. 

   -For mobile phones/tablets
   >Snapdragon
   
2) RAM is Random Access Memory which is temporary memory used by the computer to store the data of what one is currently working on.
   Low RAM results is low multitasking and vise versa.

3) Computer Configuration consists of the parts as follows:
   >Processor : Used to process the instructions to run any application or do some task in the system.
   >RAM : Random Access Memory which is temporary memory used by the computer to store the data of what one is currently working on.
   >GPU : Graphical processing unit which is responsible to the visual appearance and effects of the system.
   >OS : Which controls all the other softwares and hardware in the system.
   >Storage : Which is a permanent storage for all the files and sotwares.
   >System type : It determines how much RAM of the system can be use and which all apps the system can use.

4) The various types of HardDisks and storage medias are as follows:
   >SSDs : Solid state disk which are used for storing the files and softwares.
   >HDDs : Hard disk devices which are old storage devices which are slow but cheap.
   >NVMe SDDs : These are newer version of SDDs which are used and they are very fast.
   >USB Drives : Used for storage and backup.
   >SD card : Secure digital cards which are mainly used to store photos and videos, etc.

5) Different bit architectures are used for determining how much RAM can be used for which the system supports.
   32 bit architecture allows the user to use upto 4GB RAM no matter how much the available RAM is.
   64 bit architecture allows the user to use 128GB or more RAM.  
  